[Music]
Yo.
Glad to have greet you all starting a
new year and very pleased to our
presence speaker and I hope we'll have
many more coming months and um now I'm
very happy
Stan Tennan we've known him for quite a
while and I find his shapes and his
meaning are very exciting and to do with
the donut
stand tennon. Thank you.
[Applause]
Well, thank you all for coming. Um, I've
got about I think three or four days
worth of material here. So, as usual,
things will roll along. But I want to
leave time at the end so that we can
discuss some of these issues because for
the first time I want to not just do the
geometry. I want to discuss some of the
philosophical implications if we can
call them that. St. we break halfway
through. Yeah, we'll break in about 50
minutes. When you want to break you so
Yes, I think we we got someone watching
that. So again, welcome everyone. Um the
title of the talk is the alphabet in our
hands. And if you haven't already
figured it out, you'll see what it's all
about fairly quickly. Um, I'm not going
to review what we've done in the past as
much as I have in the past. I'm going to
have to assume certain things are known,
and I'm just going to summarize them
very quickly, but I wanted to start by
playing you um something from this
little tape recorder, which will take a
second or two to queue up, I think. And
I should have done that first. I didn't
think of it. And I want you to just
close your eyes and listen to it and
tell me what you think of it.
[Music]
Well, for those who of you who are
familiar with the work we've been doing,
and I want to remind everyone this is
still work in progress.
and things will change and not
everything I say is going to be
absolutely so and there are a lot of
missing pieces and we can't get into
everything tonight anyway. Um, but what
that is is the sequence of letters in
the text of Genesis in the Hebrew text
of Genesis played out one by one on a 22
note per octave scale. They're 22
letters in the short form of the Hebrew
alphabet. Um, it's played out on nine
different simulated instruments. This
was done on a computer. All of the
instruments
like we are going to see about the
letters are formed by aspects of the
hand. And if there's time later, I'll
get into that a little more deeply. But
if not, I wanted to know the instruments
that are used which are listed in the
150th song and supposedly used at Temple
of Solomon um
are also related to this same form that
we're going to talk about generating the
alphabet.
Let's see. I wanted to start to set the
scene a little to give a sense of a
philosophical perspective by reading a
very short quote from a book by a
physicist in Minnesota um named Roger
Jones. This is a book called physics as
metaphor which is a wonderful book very
readable and it's not a lot of physics.
It's a lot of physics as metaphor. The
main point or one of the main points
that he makes
um about the use of physics and why
people do physics and how physics is
understood and just just a simple
sentence. He says the principal motive
behind our scientific metaphors is the
avoidance of death.
Um that sort of spans the subject matter
I think. So think about that. Um what is
it that connects physics with our need
to deal with our mortality? To some
extent that's what we're going to talk
about although we're not going to talk
about that explicitly.
So let me review um what everyone who
has heard these discussions before has
heard for those who haven't. Um, most
people as children have had the
opportunity to make paper models perhaps
and you cut out a piece of paper and
it's set up to make a particular model
and it's got tabs and slots and if you
put tab A into slot A and tab B into
slot B, the piece of paper, the model
folds up into the intended form. It's
pretty simple. Um, I didn't bring Globe
by Maxium globe. I usually have, but
that's how I put it together as a child.
Um,
if you take the Hebrew text of Genesis
and you look at the first verse, which
is the first natural unit of the text,
and you write the letters out, one each
on a bead on a bead chain, and curl the
bead chain up, so the same letters line
up just like tab A into slot A and tab B
into slot B. Then the bead chain folds
itself up into an identifiable form. Now
this is one of the earlier versions of
that B chain which is now on a piece of
paper. And what you can see is all the
letters double up.
And in fact if you want more details
this is all laid out in some of the
earlier lectures which are available.
But the idea is that this pattern is so
strong that if a letter were to have
been miscied
or left out or some other tragedy had
happened and something was lost, you
could uniquely replace that letter
simply by reference to the other
letters. That's how strong the pattern
is.
Um, the reason for doing the music was
to find out if these patterns continued
beyond the first verse because after
all, maybe it was just a lucky hit that
the there was meaning at the letter
level in the first verse. That would be
a lot less important than if a whole
text was coded at the letter level,
which is apparently the case. If you
agree with me, then you probably think
that that music sounded like it was not
random, but that there was some kind of
cyclical structure to it. And again,
we've discussed that at length before.
And apparently there is. There's also
been statistical work done by um tenure
professors, people ought to know what
they're doing at UCLA and Hebrew
University and a few other places which
have shown that there are letter level
patterns in some of these texts which
are not in for instance um the
essentially similar story in the
Samaritan version of the text which is
also in the ancient alphabet but has
slightly slightly different spellings
and the letter patterns disappear. So,
we're dealing with a text that is coded
at the letter level, letter by letter by
letter. That's very important because
most people think that the text of the
Bible of the Torah is a story. Um, it's
a rare story indeed where the sequence
of letters makes the words which then
have to be made into a story. And I am
not going to read those quotations
tonight, but again, that's on some
earlier material. So, we have a text
that folds itself up into this form. And
the interesting thing about this form
before I put it away entirely is that
when you go around and you get to the
end, you come up in the middle and start
over again. That the form has seven
turns to it and then in this kind of
flattish form
and that when you get to the seventh
turn, it comes up the middle and goes
around again. Actually, get the sixth
turn and the seventh is up through the
middle. Now from Arthur Young and others
we have learned that you can identify
something very similar.
A Taurus a donut is identified
mathematically by seven colors on its
surface and they're arranged. So every
color is surrounded by the other six.
And you can see this this vortex shape
this spiral path that outlines the edges
of the colored regions. Now that's only
there if you make all the regions
exactly the same size and shape.
Mathematically you don't have to do that
normally. This is an idealized form
where if you don't have any particular
reason to do otherwise you make
everything equal. We're looking for
AAM's razor for minimal forms here. And
this is one form of of the Taurus and it
has three turns around with the seven
colors array on it for one turn through
the hole. And here's another form of
Taurus.
This one has three loops through the
hole. all the three heavy black lines
for each one turn around it. And this is
a little noisier, but uh it also
maintains that pattern of of six around
one. Every every color has six around
has the six other colors surrounding it.
And as many of the people here know, um,
Arthur has elucidated a wonderful theory
of process based on the seven stages
that you can correlate with the seven
colors on the Taurus as a natural cyclic
model.
And it turns out that the verses at the
beginning of Genesis, which is really
all we've investigated in great detail,
have that same cyclic pattern to them.
They fit on the surface of a Taurus. And
when you put them on the surface of a
Taurus, the letters line up
in the Hebrew text.
Now we can examine the Taurus
and as you can see from this wonderful
model now that um our friend Arthur
Block is making um he calls it a
hypersphere and again Arthur has pointed
out that
the
volume of the Taurus
is equivalent to the surface of a sphere
in four dimensions.
And so in a true sense, you can think of
this as a hypersphere. You can think of
it as a sphere being pulled around a
circle. Although you couldn't see its
full thickness. You can see a Taurus as
a ring is a circle being turned around a
circle. But if you think of that circle
is actually a sphere, then you can see
why this would be a hypersphere. It's
got an extra level of circulation to it.
Give them that the formula. The circle
is p<unk> r 2 and you go it around. So
it'll be multiplied by 2 pi 2. So 2 pi *
p<unk> r that is the hypers. Exactly.
And again very eloquently put and
written up much better than I could. I
highly recommend the reflexive universe
to anyone watching this tape. It'll help
you understand much of what's being said
here is that I think this this follows
from it. All right. So, we have found
that the first verse of Genesis makes
these donuts somehow. And of course,
there's a lot more to it than that. Um,
one of the early riddles though was I've
only used half of the possible spaces on
this form. And the half is a nice
elegant number, but it'd be nice to use
all the spaces. They have to find out
what's the tightest form that the the
first verse can fit on. And uh a year or
two later and I again didn't bring that
cuz I don't want to go into a lot of
detail. We found that the first fisk
also fits on a form that looks like
this. It's basically a cube with a
little vortex on each face of it.
Actually sits on a cube ocahedron even
better. And it's got only one axis of
spin symmetry. So it could have a real
sphere down the middle of it. And this
because of the way a cube can be pasted
together, the opposite face is
identified, is a mathematician's model
of how a hyperdimensional Taurus would
look if it was pushed back into three
into three dimensions. This is just the
outline, one outline of a hyperus, a
bagel of the gods, if you will. Um,
would that be a cube with opposite faces
connected? The opposite faces, if you
look through this very carefully, you'll
find the opposite faces are mirror
images of each other. It's as if you
took this paste and pulled it around and
pasted it onto this face and that would
give you three rings. And again, you can
look at some of the other presentations
for the details on this. And so this is
a hyper taurus, if you will. Um, on this
form, as it turns out, all but four
places are filled up with letters. So,
it's a more compact representation of
the first verse.
I'm going to show you rather quickly, I
think, um, when we get into this that we
now have a form in which those four
places disappear. They turn out to be
crossing points on a knot. And if you
were to have two letters there, there
would be a double labeling of the cross,
the crossing point on the knot. And so
what you want is only one letter. And it
turns out on one of these knots that's
on the table, that's what happens.
All right. So now we have found that we
have this first verse and it makes that
pattern and now we can look a little
more closely at it. Mathematicians um
are very much into elegance and
simplicity and minimalism. And so
we can take these two Tauruses with
their two kinds of seven color maps.
This one three around for one through
and this three through for one around.
And we can simply throw away the whole
donut and just look at the outline.
The white one is like the big Taurus.
This is just the edge of the seven color
map. And you can still see the three
turns. Little heart shape in the middle
there.
And this one is just three loops. This
is like the smaller model. And neither
these are these are not knotted at all.
These are completely open loops. You
could pull this apart into an open open
loop. There's no knot tied in here.
They're three coils.
In fact, you can find that if you looked
at this edge, there's a form that was in
the math journals recently because an
artist made it called an umbilic toid.
And the edge of this umbilic toid has
that same three coils on it.
Okay. Now, the interesting thing about
an umbilic, you can see that it would
have like a triangular cross-section and
it's sort of twisted as it comes around.
Well, we'll see later where that comes
from, but I'll give you a clue. Here's a
column that's got a twist in it. And if
we could paste this end onto this end,
then these edges would become
three loops.
And in fact, on that version, here it
is.
Again, these are not knotted. This just
outlines the edge of that little form in
the middle, which we're going to talk
about as we go on.
Now why am I telling you all this?
Because of what we found from it.
If you look at either of these,
you can abstract them very simply.
Instead of making the doughut flat like
a bagel, you can notice that donuts
don't donuts don't come in the world
like bagels. They come in the form of
apples.
Apples.
If you were to take the stem out and the
seeds out and the flower off, this would
be just like a dimple sphere form of
donut. Sort of like a jelly donut except
it has the hole goes through. And we
have a model here what that would look
like. And as you can see, if you were to
slice vertically through your apple, if
I could find where the slice is. There
it is. It's got cross-sections that are
more elliptical than circular, but it's
still obviously a donut. It still has
this
puff and fall through itself effect.
Now, if you take this form and you put
it on the apple,
these black lines are what happens if
you trace the blue lines on here and
make it kind of smooth. you find that it
divides the apple up into what we're
going to find are actually six pieces,
but I've only got a half here marked
off. Six hands.
And these six hands can be lifted off.
You lift off one of them or the other.
And they look like this.
And they fit on the hands.
Now, I want to step back a little and I
want to uh make sure that we're um not
getting ahead of ourselves. Yeah. I want
to give read you some quotations
from the rabbis about the hands. But I
guess rather than just holding off on
it, I should come right out and say it.
If you look at these completely
asymmetrical forms, there's no two ways
they look the same from different
directions.
You find that shadows of them are all of
the Hebrew letters.
All of the yellow outlined letters in
these columns are actually shadows not
of these thicker ones,
but of
this thinner one, which is easier to
make the shadows from.
So, let me take a moment and read a
couple of quotations so you get a sense
of where we're going with this.
Now these are in your pack so I won't
take too much time with it.
This is from Rabbi Ari Kaplan quoting
from my monies discussing in the guide
that they're perplexed a verse from the
psalms or actually from from the Torah
initially
says the pious were therefore particular
to minimize a time when they could not
reflect on God's name.
So pious people, religious people are
supposed to be aware of God all all the
time. And they cautioned others saying,
"Let not your minds be vacant from
reflections on God." In the same sense,
King David said, "I have set God before
me always. He's at my right hand. I
shall not be moved." And my monities
explaining it says, "What he meant was I
do not turn my thoughts away from God.
He is like my right hand which I do not
forget for even an instant because of
the ease of its motions.
Another quotation and we'll talk about
that in a minute. The letters, this is
from Rabbi Kaplan again, the letters are
said to pertain to foundation since it
is only through the letters that wisdom
and understanding can come together and
be coupled. As discussed earlier, wisdom
is pure non-verbal thought.
Understanding on the other hand can only
be verbal since if an idea cannot be
expressed verbally it cannot be
understood. The only link between
non-verbal wisdom which is in the mind
in the Hebrew tradition and verbal
understanding which is understanding of
the outer world consists of the letters
of the alphabet.
And I think I will skip the next little
section there. Um I'm going to read you
the last quotation also. So this is from
Rabbi Yitsuk Ginsburg
writing in his book on the Hebrew
letters published recently.
The mouth the secret of creation in the
present moment whose breath represents
the continual emanation of energy matter
is between the two eyes and he goes on
and on. The idea is the mouth is this
connecting thing where this energy
matter connector the breath comes from.
Um, and
he also says the word memory itself in
Hebrew means a source of speech.
Now, just to let you know that this
isn't entirely
exclusively any one tradition and we'll
talk about the difference between
different traditions that have preserved
these ideas later. This is from the Sufi
path of knowledge by William Churik
talking about the work of Iban Arabi I
believe and we don't have these quotes
so I'm just going to read it for you.
He says and I'm excer
because we just don't have time. He says
let's see therefore the entities become
manifest within the breath of the all
merciful just as letters become manifest
within the human breath.
He says
the analogy between letters that take
shape in the human breath and the all
merciful breath provides the basis of
one of the shakes's major modes of
describing the cosmos. Just as the
Arabic alphabet has 28 letters and
there's a variation from the Hebrew
which in its full form has 27 and the
Greek which has 27
through which the names of all things
may be pronounced. So also the cosmos
has 28 basic letters which combine to
produce all created things.
Each letter of the alphabet issues from
a particular point
here. Further, the real is the root of
the one unique being. The root.
Just to give you a sense of where I'm
going with this, you might think this
looked a little like a tap routt.
It also looks like a lot of other
things. Each tradition has different
language that it uses to describe what
we're going to find is the same form.
The real is the root of the one unique
being referring to God.
And again, just for the sake, well, just
for the sake of brevity, I think I'm
going to have to not keep going. I'm
going to do one more section. So, the
cloud is like the human breath. The
manifestation of the cosmos when the
cloud extends into the void in
accordance with the levels of the
engendered things is similar to the
human breath extending from the heart to
the mouth.
The manifestation of the letters in the
path of the breath in the words is
similar to the manifestation of the
cosmos from the cloud which is the
real's all merciful breath
within the ordained levels among the
supposed extension not within a body
from which is the void filled by the
cosmos. Well, we could go on with these.
I see just one is
one last one. The breath defines the
dynamic interreationship between God as
the non-manifest and God as the
manifest.
This is from a Sufi Arab position.
So what do we have here? Let's talk
about this idea of hands and breaths and
letters and all of that.
If the letters of a scriptural text are
determined by some kind of pattern,
they're set by a pattern. And if the
translations are a clear text meant to
describe that pattern at a more general
level for the general public,
then that pattern of letters is what's
most important.
Here we have the a form which generates
the letters. You look at it from their v
various directions and not only do you
see the Hebrew letters and I haven't
done all the work but we have examples
of it if you want. You also generate the
Arabic and in a very closely related
form you generate the Greek letters. All
three of those alphabets are called
sacred.
Why? Why make an alphabet where there's
a central object and if you look at it
from various directions, those are the
letters of the alphabet.
Well, the idea that I presented earlier
is that the sequence of letters in
canonized texts
determines a meditation that you can
experience if you could turn this form
over in your mind's eye. But it's a very
confusing form to look at.
You can all try this. No one's going to
tickle you. Close your eyes. No tricks.
Everyone close your eyes. Point to the
ceiling.
Don't open your eyes. Ask yourself, do
you know where your fingers are
pointing? Do you know which finger is
up? Do you know where where your where
your other fingers are? Where your thumb
is? Which way your hand is facing?
Now, without moving your hand, open your
eyes and look at your hand. Were you
approximately right at least? Did
anybody get it wrong?
Essentially from birth,
even a blind person
can always visualize their own hands,
can reach behind them and pick something
up.
Our body is something we can naturally
visualize. But the hand is very special
and the human hand is specialer yet. We
are supposedly
of higher consciousness than other
creatures on earth with maybe a few
exceptions because of our opposable
thumb. The fact our hand grasps and and
has a self-referential effect closes on
itself.
The word human comes from the Latin
manus which means hand.
But more important than that,
the hand represents the means by which
we as individuals once we come aware
become aware of something that we would
like to act on. When we form that will
in our mind,
it's wholly subjective. Doesn't have any
external existence. When we have that
will,
we act in the world by moving our hand.
We take something totally subjective in
our completely private mind space
and we enter objective physical reality
with our hand. The human hand is the
human embodiment of a general principle
that projects consciousness into
physics.
And if we look at that general principle
of projection from all the possible
directions we can look at it
then we can in theory
take any path possible in consciousness
or in physics.
You know they used to teach dancing. I
think I I've been calling them Arthur
Murray footprints. If you step in the
footprints on the floor you learn to do
the dance. They are the alphabet for
this flatland dance.
If you can follow the directions of the
letters in your mind, you're taking on a
kind of internal yoga
which produces an experience
which validates the religious tradition
of the text that was canonized.
So we have here a general principle
applicable to consciousness and to
physics. Why the physics? Well, it turns
out and again we're not going to go into
details. I didn't even put the chart up
because if I would probably get lost in
it. Turns out mathematicians have proven
that if you're examining a hypersphere
in anything from four through six
dimensions, whatever the those might be,
there are 27 lines naturally on that
surface. They're the 27 solutions to the
general cubic equation. You don't have
to know about that, but they turn out to
correspond
to the 27 Hebrew letters with the final
letters added on.
And they fit the same pattern that
Arthur Young presents on the surface of
the Taurus on the hypersphere. this
seven stage pattern. If you take the
process and you put it between unity and
wholeness, you take the seven stages of
process and you add an initial and a
final stage, a seed and a fruit with the
process being the tree between them. And
when you do that, you have nine
letters on each level and three levels
and you have 27 letters. And you can
assign meaning as I've shown in the
previous talk to the letters based on
those 27 permutations. And each letter
gets an explicit meaning. And that
meaning appears to be good in all
languages. And we may or may not have a
good time for that at the end. But let
me show you the letters.
I want to make one one other um review
statement about this. We're starting at
the center of an apple.
took this right off the apple. It was
right off the apple.
So this must be the seeds.
Genesis and quoting in the Hebrew
coalistic document the Zohar
both say fruit tree yielding fruit whose
seed is in itself.
If this is the seed then this is the
tree and this is the fruit.
This is the fruit tree yielding fruit
whose seed is inside of itself.
This is what I was calling last time I
was here two years ago. Naked recursion.
Acorn, oak tree, acorn, oak tree,
chicken, egg, chicken, egg. This
embodies the whole path from the egg to
the chicken, from the acorn to the oak
tree to the acorn with a note with a new
germ inside of it. Full life cycle. this
naked recursion
or this flame of consciousness because
there's a flame shape generates the
letters. Let's do the alphabet then. And
this is all going to be new for this
group. There is a um a videotape that
we've made of between the last time I
was here and this time which goes
through these motions because I didn't
have them two years ago. Now, here's
what I'm going to do.
You can look at this chart um and we can
make these charts available to people
who who need to see them. This is a
particular Hebrew alphabet set here.
This is a development of the Hebrew
alphabet as it was written in Islamic
Spain
may explain why the Arabic letters look
similar about thousand years ago roughly
very roughly up until the the
Inquisition up until the expulsion that
this hand rabbis still use that hand.
It's a true hand similar to the way a
Torah school would be written but it's a
little more fluid. We think it's a more
original form and that the form used on
the Torah scrolls was specially stylized
so a letter could not be miscopied.
Now, here's the secret.
We deduced meanings for the letters off
of that logical chart based on the 27
directions that you can move in physics.
That means that the letters represent
all the possible ways you can move in
hyperdimensions in physics. And that's
the base space for doing physics
regardless of the physical theory you're
dealing with. And we we said they also
correlate to directions in the in the
mind, directions in consciousness. But
how do we learn those directions?
And how do we gain confirmation of those
meanings? How could something so
abstract be universal? Because it's
claimed that Hebrew is the prebabel
universal language.
It's claimed by people who believe in
the Abrahamic tradition. As we'll see as
I read some more quotes. This is an
older idea, but it's been embodied in a
coherent way in these traditions.
In fact, we all have the same DNA in
every cell in our body. Even though we
make many different organs and so the
difference between the different
religious traditions is they represent
different organs. Each is a different
embodiment, a different vessel, but the
flame inside, the DNA inside, the nosis,
the personal mystical experience
is very similar.
In any event,
I'm going to give you the name of the
Hebrew letter. I'm going to give you the
meaning of the Hebrew letter and I'm
going to show you the gesture that
displays the letter. Now, what I mean by
that is this model in my right hand when
I look at it with my eyes open, it will
look like one of these letters. If I
were to close my eyes, wouldn't make any
difference. I could still see them
because I can always see my hand. And
because this is fits my hand like a
glove.
Now, these may not all be right. This is
a work in progress. Most of the letters
can only be seen in one position or you
break your wrist. Clearly, that's not
the way it works. Some of the letters
are very simple, like this perfectly
straight little bug. You can see it any
number of places. So, the only way I can
tell where the bub is is I have to put
it between the head and the sign.
Otherwise, I wouldn't have any way of
knowing where the bug was. So, again,
there's there's room for for uh
variation here and for improvement. And
maybe someone who can move more fluidly
than I can to demonstrate it better.
Anyway, when I'm saying the letter's
name, I can see that letter in my right
hand. If you could look through my left
hand into my eye, you would see the
letter in my left hand. That's the
difference between the two hands.
They're mirror images of each other.
In fact, they do something very cute.
You can see they're mirror images. They
wouldn't do that.
Okay, let's do it.
This is olive. Olive means everything.
I'm pointing to my solar plexus.
Bait is to break open, to be born. This
is bait.
Gimmel. Gimmel means a camel. Camel goes
back and forth between oases. There's
its two humps. They're the two oases.
You can see it's going to be an oasis
because these flat things are the oasis.
Let me turn the model over later.
Dalot means to divide, to pour down, to
become poor and then pouring down. Dalot
the same in Greek. A delta is where
river divides out into the city. We
would say it DLT dilutes or dilates
there at the DLT. Delta or dollar, same
letter, same root. Hey is a window or a
frame. Now I can't see these. Yes, I
can. right through the side of my head
because I always know where my hands are
and you can see the head.
In this case, it's easier to see in my
right hand.
V is a pin. I'm going to find it over my
spine. Zion means to project. That's
pretty obvious. Don't get in the way of
the energy beam.
Ket means to encompass or to encircle.
It's down here. Encompass or encircle.
T means all, total, complete. I'm
holding the whole thing in my hands. My
hand is falling off.
Y is my hand. It could be any place out
here. It's a very small letter, so I
can't be exactly sure, but it obviously
means to extend the hand.
Kuff is the palms. I'm looking at my
palms. If I come up a little higher, it
becomes lammed. Lammed is the flame. I'm
sorry, I didn't need the names of all
this. Y is, well, I did. Y is the hand.
Cuff is the palm. Lit is a flame means
to or to learn light to light the mind
flame. It's Aladdin's lamp. There's the
reflector and there's the flame
and it reflects the light right at the
second focus of the ellipse back into my
eyes. Well, it may not be quite that
direct.
Depends on how you make it. It could
even be that direct. I don't know for
sure, so I shouldn't tell you that. Mem
means source or from or out of. The
source of speech is at the throat. If
you would not want to break your wrist,
this is the only way you can see the
letter me. Yeah, you can see it. Well, I
maybe I can use the smaller model. This
is the right-handedness. Then you'll be
able to see it easier.
Yeah, that's correct. Yeah, you can see
the man
right there. Man is
right down the bottom.
Okay. Me is from source of non means the
neck.
The non is just a shape. Sach means to
support or to sustain. By the way, non
in English would be the non connects the
am and the pm. Sic is to sustain. I'm
making a cradling motion and the samic
is in my hands. I am means the eyes.
Right up here
the iron.
Yes. Which one? Iron means eyes.
Here. This is the one it is. Where are
you? Who?
Yes.
Pay. Pay means the mouth. Where do you
suppose my hand is going to go?
It's pay also means to puff or to
swallow.
Pay you don't put your thumbs in your
mouth. You can maybe a little variation
but that's pay si is the righteous
personic
the zodiac head in the stars if you
will. Sadi
sadic has clean hands
and I can see the so-called rashi sadic.
You will see right there to know Hebrew
rashic.
Yes.
Um, KOF means monkey or skull
up here. I think I'm a monkey hanging
from a tree limb and I'm outlining my
skull. Here's the skull.
Re means to radiate. The head to rush
out.
Sheen is to shine. Actually means a
tooth, but a tooth is weird. toothy
grin. It means has many sheen has many
meanings, but it's basically spiritual
energy shining on you. Sheen is up like
here. Turns out sheen is exactly the
opposite of bait in Hebrew. And it turns
out that's the same on this models.
Again, you know Hebrew rashi. Okay. If
this is the rashi sheen, yes,
then this should be the rashi date.
Yes.
And tav is itself to mark.
Reflexivity.
Olive
GM
nun sa
k re shin tub.
This is on a tape that we brought with
us as a supplement if people would like
to study it. Um I think we've got a few
copies here that are available um after
the presentation.
You can see that the natural meaning of
the letters, the natural meaning of the
gesture is the meaning of a letter, I
think. And if you check some of the
earlier material I presented, you'll see
how it correlates even better.
10 minutes left. 10 minutes left. We're
not doing too well, folks.
Well, actually, we're not doing as bad
as I thought. We're halfway to what we
thought I would be. I want you to uh
It's all right. There's really very
little hope that we can get everything
in. Um, and I think it's going to be a
little too much anyway, but I think
we'll have enough for the basics.
I want you to guess what this word
means. I'm going to move between the two
letters, the two letter root, which is
unusual, but there are some like that.
Somebody tell me what this means.
Anybody? What am I describing?
Yeah, that's pretty good. It's more a
little simpler, folks.
Apple. Yeah, you're all right. This is
the root for round.
Gimlmen CL. It's our word coil or cycle.
Okay, we I think we'd best move along
because of the time problem.
I wanted to um point out something else
and that is that the purpose of both our
hands
and of our speech is to make
distinctions.
And that what you end up looking at here
is a model of a projection where you
start with conscious will
and you breathe, you project
and you have speech or hand motion
that you have a situation in the Hebrew
tradition where God contracts himself
zimson
then throws a line out and that
manifests the universe.
the same idea
and we're going to see that repeated a
little later.
Um, I wanted to read a couple of I hope
very quick quotes now
from several different sources. This is
from
I didn't number this one. All right,
I'll read it anyhow. This one's for
later and I numbered them all.
Number four.
This is from um a book called
Egyptian miracle by Schwala Dubis.
Um he talks about how in feronic Egypt
he says and also in India
although with dangerous complications
which is his note he says the one and
only god who is unknowable is an idea
derived by logical conclusion.
This is um a more scholarly source Carl
Lukart writing Sunni press
right fairly recently.
He says,
"All the while, however, picking up from
something he was saying earlier, the
blending of divine names and functions
could not have been understood easily
could could have been understood easily
by the simple fact that for learned
ancient Egyptians, there has
persistently been a single god who has
staged the entire continued polytheistic
show. No less than nine divine names
were fused in helopolis into a single
anad a ninefoldness.
On what basis could a Christian scholar
classify his own theology trinity as
monotheism and keep insisting that the
helopolitan and belongs to a polytheism.
The monotheism of the pharaohs had no
difficulty sponsoring, embracing and
absorbing lesser provincial deities
throughout Egypt as additional members
offer of the internal divine nead.
And it goes on with that direction. This
is from
No, I guess we No, one more.
Right. This is from Anne McCauley
writing about the Apollo God in the
Greek stories. And she says, and
finally, let us return to Apollo. It
came as a shock to me
to find that this god was derived from a
geometric figure. And she provides what
she thinks that is which I disagree with
but very interesting.
And she goes on to say
again cutting in in the middle for the
sake of time. The concept is total and
the harmonic nature of the music
demonstrates the great harmony of
creation. Apollo can thus be seen as the
logos or in another sense as the
definition of the absolute god.
Now, the reason I'm reading those is
because of the little story that is in
the uh material we handed out about
Abraham, which I do want to tell you
before the break, regardless of how late
we get.
And I think we're just going to have to
run with it and we'll take a break right
after I do that.
Um, but you can read it more detail in
the handouts and we'll have that
accompany the videotapes if we make it
available.
The standard story is that Abraham is
raised in the house of his father Terra
who is an educated cosmopolitan person
who comes from of the Chaldes and he's
an idol maker. He makes idols of stone
and wood and metal and he sells them to
the local population. And Abraham is
down in the shop one day and says, "Oi,
this stuff is no good at all. They're
dead. They don't think. They don't eat.
What good are they? Daddy's a ripoff."
and he smashes all the idols
and discovers somehow the one God.
And we're supposed to believe that an
intelligent, educated, cosmopolitan
person who is of high character because
these are supposedly good people and the
founders of this faith are somehow
selling these ripoff idols.
That's the simple story.
The rabbis elaborate on it, and I'm
going to elaborate even more on what the
rabbis say. It seems to me that the
idols of an intelligent educated person
in any age are the icons of the culture
are the models used in each and every
culture to describe the sacred whatever
is thought to be sacred. Even if it's
money, which may be our icon.
And different cultures because they have
different experiences and different
tools and different times and different
needs
look to different things in nature to
model certain natural qualities of life
of the sacred quality of life. The birth
and death cycle. Acorn oak tree. Acorn
oak tree.
And to site the ones that I that I put
down, but there are many more. Um, the
ancient Chinese according to Moran are
supposed to have set out with their
first original set of idoggrams, 28 of
them based on 28 mansions of the lunar
zodiac, a cyclic system. The Persians
and the Greeks used a solar zodiac and
they had gods and goddesses waring with
each other as the zodiac went around.
And the druids are into the life cycle
of trees and living things and
vegetables.
All peoples pick something cyclic
to represent the cyclic nature of life.
There's nothing wrong with any of these
models. They are all true.
But none of them are universal. Each is
specific to its time and culture and to
the understanding of its metaphor. And
each is limited to the extent that the
model is limited. Abraham
in my version acting as a mathematician
says
I don't need to eat the dough in the
donut.
All I need to know is the seven color
map. I don't even need the seven color
map. All I need is the outline. Let's
strip away all the embodiment. Let's
take out the lunar zodiac. Let's take
out the solar zodiac. Let's get rid of
all the trees. They're all true. But
let's as mathematicians just look at the
unmbodied principle underneath all of
them. What do they all have in common?
Well, they have this quality of naked
recursion. Naked in the mathematical
sense. They represent just the cyclic
nature of all things including the
cyclic nature of our consciousness which
reflects back to itself which is what
our thumb is about.
And so when you strip away all of these
embodiment, you end up without any
graven images. You end up with a
sequence of feelings,
parts of a meditation, perhaps parts of
the sense of how life organizes.
And that's by definition
the one God that is a unity underlying
everything. And if it's also a geometric
mathematicians type model of unity,
then you can learn certain things about
why there is a one god and what the
function of that is by examining the
model. And just to to speed things up
again and to and to make the point
before the break and I'll try to do it
very quickly because then we're going to
go to the drawings after the break.
In Hebrew, the first letter of the first
verse of the text of Genesis is the
letter bake, which as I said means to be
born, to break open. It means both and
both. In Hebrew, it actually means a
house. It also or it means two. In
English spelled bet could either be b or
b o t. The t and th sounded the same.
Same word in Hebrew and English. It
means
the distinction between inside and
outside which is what a house makes. The
primary distinction. It is the first
distinction, the mark of distinction as
mathematician Spencer Brown would put it
in um a wonderful little book called
laws of form talks about how you can
generate all kinds of mathematics simply
from making a mark that distinguishes
inside from outside. And other
mathematicians have shown that you can
derive all of formal logic just from the
mark of distinction. The mark of
distinction is the Hebrew letter bait.
It's just what the donut does. It
distinguishes the inflow from the
outflow, the out whole universe from the
stuff inside.
And for details on that, I refer you to
Arthur's work or to some of the earlier
videotapes.
And
that mark of distinction
is the basis of what we do with our
hands or with our speech also. In fact,
it's what our consciousness does is make
distinctions.
Now,
a physicist that we are all familiar
with these days, fellow named Penrose,
he's written a book called The Emperor's
New Mind.
He talks about the source of life on
Earth. Again, this is what the sacred is
about. And he points out rightly as we
all know that all of the matter that the
earth is made of is created in the
nuclear furnace at the center of stars
including our local star the sun
that comes from gravitational accretion
and that's part of his discussion in his
book and I'm not going to go into that.
And he points out also that not just the
matter but also the energy needed to
drive any process on earth including the
tectonics of the earth because the heat
in the planet is also from these nuclear
materials and the heat coming in the
weather uh the energy that drives most
importantly life photosynthesis and all
that comes from that all comes from the
sun that's the energy but then he says
but what causes
the reduction in entropy that life
represents because we're not just energy
driven. We're self-organizing.
There's information. Where does the
information in DNA come from? What gave
it up its own information to give this
information? What became more entropic,
more disorganized so we living things
could be more organized? And he points
out the answer is something very
interesting.
It's because the sun is a hot bright
spot in a cold dark sky.
It is high contrast maximum distinction
because the ultraviolet photons that
come into us get downgraded as they heat
the planet and are radiated back out as
infrared photons. And ultraviolet violet
photons have
less entropy than infrared photons. And
we are in that stream of organizing
informationational energy. And so the
physical hot bright sun big and bright
as it is but not infinitely big and
bright against the cold black sky
drives the simple self-organizing
properties of life. But we can go a step
further. What gives us our self-aware
type of consciousness? one level up from
what cats and dogs are supposedly have.
That's debatable.
Instead of hypothesizing or looking at
just a finite, very bright spot, pretty
far away in a black sky, let's go one
step further. Let's examine the
properties of an infinitely bright spot.
Infinitely far away. That would be much
higher contrast. Now hyper contrast
driving hyper consciousness.
That's why God has to be singular.
That's not religious puffery.
That's because if you want to explain
where self-aware consciousness comes
from, you were led to take Penrose's
path until you reach an abstraction
that is singularly distinctive. Again,
that's that dim sum that the cobalists
talk about, that contraction point
against the sky.
And so,
let me look at my notes to make sure I
didn't skip anything here because it's
hard enough to keep track of that if I
fill everything in. Um, I would like to
point out that there are a couple of
things that have that property, that
high distinction property. We're about
to have to break. Don't panic. Um, we
look at that in different cultures and
times in different ways. Dowists would
look at yin and yang.
Mathematicians might compare absolute
symmetry, the symmetry of the polyhedra
with absolute asymmetry, the asymmetry
of the vortex form. And the distinction,
the difference between symmetry and
asymmetry is as absolute as between a
point, an infinite tesmal, infinite
bright point
and nothing.
Um, we could look at other models as
well, including something called the
Forier transform, which is basically um
a gadget that takes the harmonics of
music and breaks them down into a
frequency spectrum. It's a spectrum
analyzer.
The forier transform of a single very
narrow infinitely
amplitude exceededly high pulse is a
continuum of all frequencies. If that
initial pulse is anything but infinite
the continuum is truncated.
If it is if it is anything but of zero
duration,
the continuum
doesn't have all of its pieces in place.
It's less than complete in time or
space. Again, if we are looking at a
universe that by definition includes all
there is, the transform of all there is
has to be an infinitely bright infinite
infiniteesmal
pulse singularity which by definition we
can identify with the one God
without in any way impuging anybody
else's gods or goddesses.
In fact, people sometimes present flying
saucer theories of of of the Bible and
of of human intelligence and
consciousness. I I was talking to a
scholar the other day and I said to him,
"Well, it doesn't really matter if the
other cultures have all kinds of other
strange beliefs. They're going to make
the same abstraction. The one God by
definition is the one God of the whole
universe." And that's not just because
I'm wearing a yarmaka and because my
background is Jewish. That's because
we've made a definition that's useful.
And I'm saying that it is the same logic
that was used by the Indians in Asia, by
the Egyptians, and by the Greeks
according to these little quotations.
Um, again, let me double check that I
haven't left out anything. One more
little point about this.
We could also say that this is the
hero's journey. This is
the Earth plane. And this is the
transcendental world mountain. And you
climb it in seven stages.
It is the mountain of high contrast. And
you never reach the peak.
This is the meditational point of the
meditational path that you follow. And
if you put two of these together, and I
don't know if I have them, I'm about to
stop. Let's do the big ones. You'll find
they make these heart shapes.
And as you know the hands are an
extension of a heart chakra and this is
the path of heart.
Okay. Um let's take a break. Um we're
going to go to discuss these posters and
we're going to have some nice discussion
and I want to get to both the poster and
discussion of what absolute truth might
be. This is um from a little Sufi
magazine. Um again I'm reading this to
give you a sense of the breath of these
ideas. I use the word breath as pun.
Um this is description of room's poetry.
It's a translation but he's got a little
discussion here too. Um of the medvy
Sufi round dance.
Now
look at what's in front of you as I
describe the round dance. Also the cover
thing in front of you is easier to see
maybe than the posters. He says um at
one point here um that you have to think
of 99 pearls
and we're going to come to that again
later but let me read from the poetry if
I can find it.
Yeah, here it is. These are very very
short excerpts. There's much much more
we could go into. And he's talking about
he's describing the round dance. This is
roomie and this is in translation. So
you got to read between the lines to get
the depth of what's happening. He says,
"Come, come, let us whirl about in the
rose garden." You can see why some of
these forms would be described as liies
or roses or flowers. And we'll talk
about these forms in a minute. Let us
whirl like a compass,
like a compass around the point of
divine grace.
Let us now whirl about the grain which
no granary comprehends.
This is a seed in an apple that is a
sacred seed. It's the grain that no
granary comprehends.
Then a little later that later he says I
am turning beside the sultan. I am like
a goblet in the circle of dancers
turning from one hand to the other with
my story.
goblet.
See the goblet.
And finally at the end he says, "Come,
come, oh thou who are the soul of the
soul of the soul." Three levels of
circles.
3 * 3 * 3 is 27. That produces the chart
of the round dance. Come thou who are
the walking cyprress in the garden of
the round dance.
the walking cyprress. Here's a little
tree in the middle and it's a foot that
the form stands on.
The rabbis have a story about teaching
Torah while standing on one foot.
Come thou under whose feet is the
fountain of light in the heaven of the
round dance.
And I think I'll stop there because we
could go on forever. And it's beautiful
poetry. Fountain. fountain reminds me of
you know what the word hurricane means
please the one one foot of God oh really
yes well of course the word in Hebrew
for storm is sufa
the cloud is a sulf and of course we
have sufis doing the dance and this is a
hurricane it's more than a hurricane let
me let me get out of my quotation I want
to do one more set of
Ansoft. One one is soft and the other
isoft. Ansoft is soft. Well, yeah.
Ansoft means means not or or limitless
in a sense. So it's kind of soft means
stop like a cloud is sort of puffy stuff
or stop thing. The end of the extent of
it is it is it stop.
That's right.
Um, just before we came over today, I
had the network news on and they were
playing um, the first pictures they've
gotten of a black hole from the Hubble
telescope. I'm going to pass these
around because they're too small to see.
These are the computer simulations of
what the telescope
saw.
I'd like you to compare this with this.
Now please understand
there is no proof here that the ancients
had any idea about black holes. This is
a basic topology. It's a fundamental
relationship. It is embodied in many
ways. We may find out that this isn't a
black hole. It's a bad photograph. It's
not going to invalidate this theory.
There's no particular one thing that's a
proof.
So, let me just let these go around the
room and you can look at them close and
it's try to get them back to me, but
they'll be on the network news again, I
think.
Finally,
this is from a book by Ariel Benson,
copyright 1932, and I'm sure not
available, called The Zohar in Muslim
and Christian Spain. The Zohar is one of
the most important books of the
Cababala, Jewish mysticism. And in
Islamic Spain up until the Inquisition,
the Muslims and the Jews and the
Christians really mixed it up pretty
well. They were very friendly. They
learned each other's teachings and
respected them. And only when the
generic Inquisition came through because
it comes through in every civilization
sometime or other did things go bad and
the information gets scattered and lost
and broken up. Um this is just the
description from from a a Zohar point of
view. But look at it in terms of what's
up in front of you and then we'll go
into that a little more detail. And I'm
trying to I can't read everything I've
highlighted here. We'll be here all
night. So
at the beginning, this is a section
called the supreme light. He says, "Then
God created the world by causing a spark
of the supreme light to go forth. And he
caused a wind to blow from above against
the wind that blew from below. your
hurricane again, a wind above. And of
course, the same thing would be on the
bottom, a wind below.
And moving a little bit ahead, he says,
"The indivisible point, illimitable and
unknowable, because of its strength and
its purity, has cast an aura outside
itself that acts as a veil for the
indivisible point itself." Moving down,
thus has everything been formed by a
movement of light ever downward and
outside of itself. And again moving
around the point the penetration of its
own light forms a ring or a palace.
Okay. And again skipping so that
emanating from the supreme point all the
degrees of creation are but envelopes.
The one for the other. The envelope of
the superior degree forms the brain of
the degree next to it. This is the onion
model of levels on levels concentrically
set. And so you can see this is sort of
like our alphabet matrix. It's a set of
concentric donuts like Penrose's
twister.
Layer on layer, brain on brain. And of
course, this excuse me, cup is the
skull.
So this could be the brain also.
And again, this is one cultural time
describing a common image. So someone
could call it a brain, someone call it
an onion.
When God created the world, he placed
the waters of the ocean around the
earth. And in the heart of the inhabited
world, God placed Jerusalem. In the
heart, if you look down on this, as I
showed you with the models, you see
these heart shapes.
Chair is escaping. Maybe that's the vice
presidential chair. Um,
and one more quote just just to finish
it because again, go on forever. Our
world forms the center of the heavenly
world. And this is a world
world h whole. It's enclosed by doors
that lead to the upper realms. At each
door, legions of angels. All right.
These angels are nourished by an immense
tree that rises out of three huge rocks
whose branches touch both heaven and
earth.
A huge tree. And as you can see from
these knots, which we'll look at later,
they all have three old nature to them.
In fact, you could also I didn't bring
the little little geometric the
tetrahedral models. And the branches of
course are this this part over the side.
You can see from here why they would be
called branches
or branches on the nodding form which
we're going to get to I hope.
Um our world lies under the protection
of the branches of this tree and remains
invisible since this light is hidden by
the branches. All right, we can go on
and on. And well, one last thing, but
know that this is the sum of the whole
matter. We're talking about the
distinction between inside and outside,
between consciousness and physical. That
all in the lower world has been made in
the image of the upper world. All that
exists in the upper world appears to us
here below as in a picture. It is all
one in the same thing. As above, so
below. What goes around comes around. Do
unto others, etc.
So now let's examine what we've got
here. Um I have to show you one other
thing that you don't know if you haven't
been here before and again I don't have
time to go into it but if you examine
Buckminister Fuller's model of DNA which
he bases on a tetrahelical structure a
tetrahelix is nothing but a bunch of
tetrahedra cemented together to form a
column.
And in fact, the column can be formed by
simply pairing up these little flame
shapes that are inside each chamber.
And as it turns out,
again, you'll have to consult previous
presentation for that because we
certainly don't have time. Turns out in
1/3 unit turn of the helix, the
tetrahelix,
the faces match up exact. Well, not
quite exactly. There's a small error
which he calls the unzipping angle.
But you could paste this face onto this
face. It's exactly one/ird of a turn. It
has room for exactly 22 triangular
faces, which are the 22 Hebrew letters.
So you can make a wick of a burning
candle out of a string of tetrahedra as
Plato describes it. Of course, we're
going to find out this is the burning
candle and this is the wick.
So if we take our tetrahelix
our alphabet tetrahelix which makes
one/ird of a turn has 11 tetrahedra 22
faces
and we add three of them together. This
is just shrinking it so it will fit so
that we get one full turn. There'll be
three full turns because each edge turns
one full turn. We could go through this
transformation. We can take this guy,
bring it along here and then take this
and pull it around to touch the other
side
and we would get this form.
Likewise, we can take a knot. Now, these
are called Taurus knots and there are
different ways of winding knots on
Tauruses and they are all mathematically
called singularities or singular knots.
They model a property of singularity to
mathematicians. So again, we're back to
the singularity idea.
And you can find that all of these
Taurus knots that have three wings to
them can be made by using this
tetrahelix as the core depending on how
much twist you put in the middle.
And it turns out if we make the 35
Taurus knot, which is this guy,
and put the letters of the first verse
of Genesis on it and look at it from one
direction, there are no amb ambiguous
spaces. All the letters are accounted
for, and there's no extra spots. And I
don't have time to show you that here.
It's kind of pretty. You can see why it
would look like an apple. You can
actually see the bottom of the apple and
the top of the apple. And you could even
form a little room in the middle if you
wanted to for the seeds.
That's the 35 knot. If we double it up,
we get this knot. If we take our Taurus
ring and we wind it the way it's shown
here,
this is called the 310 Taurus knot. And
it sits on the surface of our dimpled
sphere or on a ring. We're going to
transfer it to a dimpled sphere from the
ring. It's a standard way. It's given
mathematically. And if we want to look
at the winding pattern, just look at
this pattern. 03692581470.
[Music]
Right? 0369
back to zero. It's your touchton tone
pad on your phone.
I turn it sideways. It's a magic square
on its diagonals and on its main
vertical horizontal center row and
column of the number 15. And 15 is the
gamatria, the numerical value of the
shortest name of God, the one spelled y
and head.
So this is the god Taurus. Christians
might think it was a crown of thorns,
something like that, or a wreath. You
can see the similarity. And if you take
this guy and crack open the Taurus
inside and pull the coils around till
they're all on one side and flip over
this outer coil like I show, you can
turn it into a dimpled sphere form of
knot.
And
this one is the 310 Taurus number. And
the red outline is exactly the outline
one of our hands. And it's one of six of
them. And in the center, the number of
tetrahedra that would be there would be
from in one hand. The number of
tetrahedra on this column would be 49.
But it takes up exactly the same room as
if it were 50 because of the unzipping
angle in the tetrahelix. We had the
jubilee holding up the form. 4950 is the
jubilee year. And if you remember the
quote I read earlier and there's another
quote I didn't get to about the 99
pearls. Well, that's the length of the
whole column top to bottom from heaven
to earth.
And they're called pearls in some text
and they're called gates in others. And
they're called you name it. Nobody knows
how to translate the words because they
don't have the model.
So now let's look at the model. We went
through the Taurus. The Taurus makes the
hand. And this particular knot,
particular toidal knot, makes this
particular model that makes six hands
around a center point, six days of the
week around the Sabbath point, the still
center. If you look at your chart for
the meaning of the Hebrew letters,
you'll find the word Sabbath in Hebrew
means to sit within yourself, to
meditate, and we're still centered.
to reach for this transcendental tip,
this point.
Now, what I've done on this big chart is
com combine as many different traditions
as I can think of buzzwords for.
And so, we've got
when Solomon is going to build the No,
when when um Moses is going to have the
ark built,
he gets the best craftsman in gold and
silver and brass.
The word gold and silver and brass is
very interesting because in the ancient
world gold was gold and grain or the
gold of the sun. That's this point
and silver kv now means money
attractiveness. Kaf cough is the palm
and soft is this whole soft is the
fruit.
And brass in Hebrew is the same root as
the word serpent.
There's the serpent and the apple
connecting the sun, the seed and the
fruit,
gold and silver and brass, seed and tree
and stem and branches
and fruit and flowers.
This is the waterfall. Showed you
Aladdin's lamp. Down here there was a
crescent. See this crescent? It's a
star. The sun in the middle. Star and
crescent. the Islamic symbol.
It's also the bow in the sky, the sign
of the covenant. There's the bow. This
is all the sky, the whole thing. This is
the earth plane. Now, you know where the
flat earth model came from. Only our
dark ages scholars thought that the
ancient philosophers really believed the
earth was flat. Maybe the general public
did. The only earth that was ever flat
is the philosophical earth plane on
which the four rivers feed the tree in
the middle of Eden, the circle of Eden.
The four rivers are the four fingers
that form each hand. And if there's
three hands in the whole circle, they're
going to be 12 hands on the rim. That
would give us 12 tribes, 12 houses of
the zodiac, 12 knights of the round
table, and all the other 12 around ones.
The whole apple sits on a, as you can
see from the earlier presentation, cube
octaced core.
This forms the apple. It's got a sphere
in the middle. That's the seed. It's
surrounded by 12 spheres. That's the
fruit. It's an in sphere and an out
sphere. A hypersphere.
The fruit. Same model again.
Um, this is also in the Greek tradition.
the world egg, the cosmic egg, the
orphic egg, the Apollo geometry does
generate the Greek letters also.
Um, this is the letter bait, the mark of
distinction between inside and outside
in Hebrew. You'll notice it's exactly
this form just turned on its side. This
is the mark of distinction.
It's the hand, the mark of distinction.
Um,
what did I do here? Well, here's some
more examples.
So what you can see is going on is that
you can make a general model that fits
the descriptions and all the quotes I
read and many many others that I didn't
have time to read which is a
mathematician's idealization of the
process of projection from inside to
outside in general
Spencer Brown's mark of distinction the
distinction that the donut makes
when the breath of God first goes poof.
poof. That's too poof. Goes poof. If you
use a real hypers
goes poof.
And of course, what will it do? It'll
extrude. I don't know if I put this
through here. No, we'll crush it. It can
extrude tetrahelixes. These three the
three edges of this guy. You can see if
I were to push this through here, these
three ribs
just like this extrudes the tetrahelix
right through it. Is this formally true?
Yes, it is. Here is the mathematician's
model of 12 of the 27 lines that define
the general cubic surface in the
hypersphere.
And as you can see, it extrudes
tetrahelixes.
If you examine
all the planetary bodies in the solar
system that have molten cores, including
the sun and the earth, you find they all
have anomalous features at 19 12 degrees
above or below the equator.
That's where the main sunspot zones are.
That's where the Hawaiian caldera is on
Earth. Even though the the mantle moves,
the volcano stays at 19 and a half
degrees. That's where the red spot is on
Jupiter. And the same on every other
heavenly body that's got a molten core.
If you were to look into here across
these, you'd see these vorticular forms.
If this is the north pole and this is
the south pole, then these centers are
at 19 and a half degrees above and below
the equator.
A molten cord planet
after all
is too.
It spins on an axis with the molten
stuff flowing around the Van Allen belt
form you've all seen which is external
of course. And so the hypersphere
projection appears to govern certain
kinds of planetary physics. That's not
proven. That's just a theory.
Some of the people exploring the face on
Mars have been working with that idea
because the face on Mars specifies that
19 and 12 degree angle.
That's another story entirely.
Let's see. I want to start to sum up
here because I think we're getting
someplace.
Um, yes.
I want to talk about now that we've done
this truth and then I want to get into a
discussion, have some questions.
If I walked into um UC Berkeley physics
lab, physics classroom, lecture hall,
and I had under my arm a book,
and I said, "I got truth here with a
capital T. This is truth. Absolute
truth."
Now, I get one of two reactions
depending on what was actually in the
book. If on the cover of the book it
said the digits in P,
people would say, "Oh, big deal. Why is
that? Of course, that's the truth.
Everybody knows pi is fundamental to to
this reality. It's it's a mathematical
abstraction relating to circles, radius,
and circumference. Um, it's pi is the
same on all planets, every place. It's
purely conceptual. It is as close as we
can come scientifically to truth with a
capital T.
And we can generate an infinite number
of digits for pi because it's a
transcendental number and they're non-re
repeating. And in fact, if we shear off
an unknown number of digits between the
decimal point and where we start
looking, pi appears to be a random
number.
But if we were to change any one digit,
it would no longer be pi.
And as soon as I tell you how far from
the decimal point you are, it's
immediately pi.
What if the sequence of letters in a
sacred text, a text that was canonized
because it had such properties? How do
you know which scripture to canonize and
which not to? You take the better story.
Oh, and if I walked into the room and
under my arm I had the Bible, then I'd
be laughed at. That's not the truth.
That's just some religious traditions
truth. That's just a story. It's
mythology. Well, the story level, and I
could read you some quotations, although
I don't think we have time. Um, maybe I
should read one. I bet I should because
I haven't haven't told everyone. You You
need to know this. I think wrong book.
I won't overdo this
glasses.
Here we go.
Says, "Woe unto the man," this is from
um the Zohar. Actually, it's from um
quoted by Lewis Ginsburg.
says, "Woe unto the man that asserts
that Torah intends to relate only
commonplace things and secular
narratives. For if this were so, then in
the present time, likewise, the Torah
might be written with more attractive
narratives." Now, the narratives of the
Torah are its garments. He who thinks
that these garments are the Torah itself
deserves to perish, to have no share in
the world to come. Woe unto the fools
who look no further when they see an
elegant robe. More valuable than the
garment is the body which carries it.
More valuable even than that is the soul
which animates the body. Fools see only
the garment of the Torah. The more
intelligent see the body, the wise see
the soul, its proper being.
Um they actually say that the sequence
of letters was determined before the
story and the story was only stabilized
as history unfolded.
If you wanted to protect a metaphysical
coded text preserving a meditation,
you would have to make it plausible and
valuable to the general public because
the Inquisition comes through
periodically. It's coming through
Yugoslavia right now where they line up
the educated people and they shoot them
all.
And 150 200 years ago, the Enlightenment
showed up. The opposite of the
Inquisition and all the mystics went and
got jobs as computer programmers and
real estate agents. They join the
opportunity of the new world. And so in
good times and in bad times, you lose
those capable of doing the deep
meditational exercises of having the
personal nosis. The only way you can
carry a germ into the future through a
barren time is in a seed husk in a
vessel. The cobblas teach that unity
only exists when the flame is wedded to
the coal where the light is in its
vessel.
That's the wave and the particle. That's
the yin and the yang. That's
consciousness and physics together.
That's spiritual traditions which are
our separate vessels carrying the same
germ. The nosis inside.
Remember our body. All our organs are
different. They all march to a different
drummer. They all believe in a different
religion.
But inside at their core, their
spiritual essence, the light in each of
those vessels is the same. That's why
the Egyptians had high magic. The Bible
says that the Pharaoh knew how to almost
keep up with Moses's
stuff.
So, it wasn't as if there wasn't
acknowledgement that lots of cultures
have knowledge. Nobody who's had an ego
death experience, who's had a
enlightenment experience, a near-death
experience, an out-of- body experience,
a condolini experience,
is going to argue with anybody else
particularly. Each of those experiences
personal, but at its core, you reach for
this transcendental point. This
transcendental sun, not the Apollo sun
in the sky that materialists worship,
the source of the matter of the earth,
but the transcendental sun, the seed
which I forget what Roomie said that's
more than a regular seed,
the transcendental attractor, not just
the sun.
So that many faiths and peoples have
these models. In fact, if I'm right,
since we all have very similar
consciousness, every people that pushes
the limits of knowledge comes up with
the same model. Um, the donut is the
most popular cosmological model both for
physicists and metaphysicists for as
long as we've got records.
But if the text of the books of Moses or
at least the book of Genesis, although
it appears all the books are coded
really records a meditation,
it's in fact what Moses came down from
the holy mountain with. After all, Moses
climbs the holy mountain, the world
mountain, Mount Si, my hor Si,
and comes down the hero's journey and
records the path letter by letter. And
if we can step into Moses, Arthur Murray
dance shoes, footsteps on the ground,
except in our minds, then we step into
that revelation. Can it be done? Can a
person write out 400,000 letters and get
it all right?
Could Mozart write a symphony? Could
Toscanini hold a symphony in his mind
and pull out a note from a particular
instrument on the spot? The answer is
yes.
Is there a musical connection? I'm Did I
mention that? Yeah. If you look at the
150th Psalm, it describes all the
letters used at Solomon's temple, all
the instruments used at Solomon's
temple. They all, as you heard from the
dinner gong, they're all off of this
form. This is the ram's horn.
This is a flute.
As I said before, the Hebrew word for
harp is kenor. Which letter should I say
it here before? I didn't. As I didn't
say before, the Hebrew word for harp is
kenor.
Cough means the palm of the hand. And
there well Hanukkah's coming there is
the candles the flame the flame the
candle in the palm we call a harp today
a hand and we string it this way
and you can go through all the
instruments a general projector's
principle both for speech and for
movement and for visualization and for
did those pictures come back and for
black holes.
and for apples and cypress trees in the
middle of the round garden and Plato's
cave. Remember the sun reflections the
earth plane Plato's cave.
Let me think if there was anything else.
No, I think it's time to um except just
finishing off that idea of truth. If the
text of Genesis
is determined letter by letter in a way
similar to the way pi is determined
except in this case it's the
transcendental function that connects
our consciousness from heaven to earth
rather than the radius to the
circumference of a geometric form then
it could very well be truth with a
capital T without any disrespect for any
other teaching or people it is not just
the religious puffery of the Abrahamic
faiths if it's an actual record of an
experimentally experientially determined
sequence of letters that means something
explicit or has an particular effect.
The rabbis teach as the Christian Muslim
traditions also teach that to change any
letter of the sacred text would mean the
destruction of the universe. Even if you
don't know it's pi, even if you think
it's a random number, if you change one
digit, it's not pi anymore.
So in that sense, if this idea is true,
then these scriptural texts that have
been preserved for us by the vessels of
our faiths,
think of it. We've got rabbis and
priests and ministers and imams and
they're teaching a religion for the
people and carrying this DNA, this germ,
these sacred texts around
each in its different vessel.
But they've done their job even if they
don't taste the water inside because an
acorn husk the shell doesn't taste of
the germ the kernel of the new oak tree.
It only protects it. So people of faith
even if they don't get to step into the
meditation even if they do not get to be
reborn in this ego death type metaphor
still have provided something very
valuable. And you don't have to you know
know any mathematics to do this because
if you think about it whether it's in
the Bible or in the Iliad or in uh this
little book on them analog or whether
it's the holy mountain going to Shambala
if you follow the hero on his journey
reading his book his story over a week
or two
you go on the journey with the hero you
identify with it you're on the
expedition that's what it means to read
a book youident identify with the story.
And when you recapitulate it to a friend
or to yourself a week later, you don't
take a week to read it. It's all there
in your mind's eye.
This path has formed in your mind. And
if you've really gone through all the
tribulations with the hero, you have
already turned this over in your mind.
And so the meditational path is open to
you.
Okay, I think questions are in order. If
you don't ask questions though, I'm
going to go back to talking. So there's
enough puff of a thread. Um I wonder if
you would again do that little hand
dance that you did so that do it slowly
so that we can see the form that you
create. Um I tell you what, before we
close I'll put the music back on and do
the hand dance as we go out. And for
those who want it there, I don't know if
we sold any or not. There are some tapes
that we brought of that just that dance.
So there are some video of people who
want it. The models will be available
perhaps in six months or so as soon as
we can get them made.
uh if the truth as you said there may be
expressed by the pattern in the Hebrew
text that you looked into may it also be
found in the patterns of the writing of
other faiths. the um people who have
done the statistical work on the books
of Moses have told me privately that
they've also done some work on the
gospels and have found similar patterns
but don't think it's appropriate for
them to work on them or publish them
because that would be politically
religiously very complicated. Um there
is also a problem that the gospels may
not be original as we have them whereas
the dead sea scrolls confirm that at
least almost back to the septuagent the
Hebrew text is unchanged. The
essentially similar Samaritan text which
reads almost identically does not have
the patterns. The skeptics would say the
rabbis added the patterns by eating a
few vowels here and there in order to
make a a correcting pattern so the text
couldn't go wrong. So the same evidence
that the believers use to prove that the
text is special is used by the skeptics
to prove it isn't. Is pi random or is it
pi?
It depends on what you know. Is the text
ordered or not? It wasn't until I just
told you this idea. It was just stories.
Now all of a sudden it's ordered. I
don't know. But
you keep or I've referred a couple times
to the the meditative process, abstract
process you get the information. So are
you inferring that
obviously this goes beyond the meaning
of the words? Yes. And so you're talking
about the actual literal sound of the
words, the shapes of Yeah. If I could, I
don't have time, but the quotes indicate
that um the shape of the letters of the
breath that makes the letter, the shape
of the letter, the tone of the letter.
Um there are several levels and they all
have to be activated. Um I've only
looked at one or two of the levels and
so this is definitely still incomplete.
Um, there's a teaching that when Adam
first showed up, he gave the creatures
their proper names. Just like I showed
you this motion that means round,
describe something round. In principle,
although we haven't checked it in
detail, the same could be true of other
proper names and forms in the biblical
Hebrew, not in modern Hebrew.
The the letters look very much like
Deuteronomy, which was the very earliest
notation.
There may be a connection. The
difference between other traditions and
this, the Hebrew, Greek, Arabic one, is
because they use this meaningful central
model. Ordinary idoggrams of hand shapes
wouldn't do it. You could never recover
it if it were lost. It's the coherence
of the model that enables it to be
reconstructed. It enables the seed, the
acorn, the tree to be reborn even though
the seed's been dormant.
I better start at this side of the room
now. I've been unfair. They say teachers
always go, you know, so much. Anybody on
this side? Steve, can you step through
the uh 310 first knot again from? Yeah.
You you take um the No, start at the
top. At top. Okay. This is the way that
you make the knot. You simply take a
piece of wire and you take a ring. Um
this is the 35 knot. You can see it's
got five points to it. Okay. And it's
got three levels. One, two, three,
three, three. If you cut through it, you
cut three wires. So this is the 35 knot
on its platform. Um
these are 37 knots. The effect is just
the central core. So that what you do is
you wind this knot. It's only a
complicated version of the simplest
knot. This is the tfoil, the 32 knot.
This is the everybody's simplest
possible knot.
And of course it it also has a
tetrahedral core. If people are
interested, I have some more detailed
drawings which I didn't give out on
that. So you simply wind this you you
weave this basket It's got 10 points. 10
spirro to the coblists.
10 points. And then you break the ring.
You break the orange Taurus.
I'm not going to do it because I want to
do it. You break the uh the tangle which
was conveniently made by Tangle Company
and you remove it
and you're just left with a knot.
I'll take a chance and renot. There's
the simple knot. the tre well. But you
know, this is the simplest knot you can
make, right? You just connect it back on
itself.
Now, putting it back in here, I'll do
later. So, I take the time now. I only
get it wrong and make myself look silly,
right?
I know from experience.
So, you break the ring and then you've
got this floppy, you know, stuff here.
You simply pull apart the loops, flip
the C loop, the one loop over on the
other side, and then straighten it out.
And then it sits on this all all the
curling then goes into the middle.
I can actually show you that I think. So
where does the zero go? Well, it doesn't
go any place. When you flip this over,
it becomes this. It disappears. You see,
you're going you're going from you're
going from a a flat form, a quasi
two-dimensional form into a quasi
three-dimensional form. When you go
between dimensions, you add or subtract
symmetry. Other words, I didn't bring
the model this time, but again, I can
show you later or anybody else. So, you
make a pentagonal spiral on the ground.
You can lift it up and form an octaedral
pyramid out of it. You go from five
symmetry to four symmetry is you go from
two to three dimensions. If you go up
another level, you could make a tetrahed
tetrahedical spiral out of the ocahedral
pyramid if you went up to four
dimensions. Words, you can always trade
dimensionality for symmetry.
That's why you can project everything in
physics down onto three and four
dimensions because there's more room for
symmetry in three and four dimensions.
So all these higher dimensions don't
really exist which is very important
teaching that Arthur has come up with.
In principle the reason we appear from a
mathematician's point of view to live in
a three and four dimensional world is
because there's more room here for
symmetry distinctions.
What other kind of distinctions can
there be? And distinction is what it's
all about. Our hand for pointing to
these distinctions. Um okay. You want me
to go any further with this?
That's fine. Okay. Anybody else?
I'm trying to give the left side of the
room a chance.
Um anticipating that that musical piece
you played at the beginning of the
seminar could probably be quite um uh
provocative meditational. Yeah. Will
that be available as soon as we can make
it available. Mero found this work is
being done by under the opices of the
Mero Foundation which is a nonprofit
educational foundation. We are not very
well funded. Um the fellow doing the
music is in Los Angeles and he's
currently writing the score for TV
series. They're paying him handsomely
and his reputation depends on it. So, us
beggars have to wait, but um it'll
happen eventually and uh we will use the
music on the vide tape either on the
tape as it was or under the credits one
way or another. Just a quick comment,
the uh that that musical score that you
played uh at the very beginning that
that sounded very similar to uh some to
to some Indian ragas the scales involved
as well as Chinese music. Yeah. The same
pattern. It's a microonal scale, the 22
upper octave scale. Turns out it
resolves in 27 notes also. So it doesn't
matter which alphabet you use.
Convenient, eh? Um, we could talk about
the relationship between 20. Well, let
me tell it to you. This is really cute.
Um, we know that the seven color map
defines the Taurus defines the Taurus,
right? And we know that this guy has 22
faces, but I already told you you can
take this end and paste it onto this
end. So, this is like a Taurus.
But wait a minute. This is a linear form
with 22 faces. And this is a circular
form with seven regions.
22 7
lines and circle.
Aha. Pi. An approximation of pi. But
again, a metaphor that's very powerful
because it locks into all this
cosmology.
Did the ancients think that pi was
really 227s? No, of course they didn't.
But it was a very handy cosmological
metaphor and it was also easy for
calculations when you didn't have pocket
calculators.
It's interesting that in the Bible the
value of pi is given at three. Not true.
In the simple translation is given as
three in King James. But if you actually
look at the me at the numerical value of
the letters used to spell out that verse
it comes out to 3.14.
Hebrew in Hebrew. Yeah. In Hebrew. Of
course, uh the word
you take the value the the initial value
is three
is 30. Yeah. Just using the equating
that three down
as four.
Yeah. But whether that proves anything
or not depends on on other issues. It
may in context be interesting. The
question of the meaning of gamatria
numerical value of of letters in the
first place is an interesting question.
It would seem to be meaningless from a
technical point of view until you think
of these letters as pointing directions.
And then all of a sudden you realize
that that's exactly what we do when we
tell time. Time is a clock. A
two-dimensional surface with an arrow on
it is the way we make a clock. And that
pointing direction has does have
meaning. The letters have pointed
dimension directions and they can be
reduced to in a neagonal pattern
one to nine
then in fact there may be something to
certain but to apply it to everything
indiscriminately it's hard to know what
what what holds I haven't I'm not a
student of Bible the value in the verse
is given three which is about the
roughest approximation you can get the
actual verse number is 722
yeah I think I saw that some place.
There's a lot more detail. In fact,
there's a lot of discussion in that. Um,
there are other parts of the Bible and
also the way the Talmud explains the
Bible that are very very intriguing, but
I don't not really an expert in so I
don't want to make statements that I
can't back up.
Getting back to this motion,
have you done any videos or any work
that motion? Yeah, that the video that
we brought is just the demonstration of
those hand motions. I don't think we
have any left. Who's got the videos?
Grace,
what? There are some. Okay. So, if you
want this clear tape. Um, anybody else?
Anything else you want to talk about?
This is the first time I've had the
opportunity to um hear about your work.
And what I'd like to know is where are
you going with it? I mean, what's the
bottom line? What's the point? What's
the It's It's like what? All right.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's several bottom
lines. Um,
if the sequence of letters in canonized
scripture do in fact encode a
meditation, it might be very helpful if
we recovered that meditation. If it has
the effect I think it does, namely
there's some sort of meditational
experience and that can be verified,
then we have found a deep level of
meaning. My guess is that that's where
the prophetic tradition in Judaism is
recorded. That's where the early
Christians got their information. That's
where the early Muslims got their
information.
That where are you going to record a
prophetic tradition except in your
sacred text? Can you record it in the
story? I don't think so. People don't
believe you when they if you told me
that you'd been to outer space or you'd
seen God or you were up in in in in the
chariot or something, how would I know
if you actually had that experience? and
I couldn't follow you anyway just
because you described it to me. But if
you could step in the shoes of the exper
if you could do the yoga, then you could
have the experience or I could have it
and then I'd know if it was true or not.
Now, maybe it's not that. We haven't
proven this. Maybe it's just the ground
plan for Solomon's temple. Maybe it's
just the weaving pattern for the cloth,
for the clothing that they wore, that
sacred garments or the priest clothing.
Whatever it is, if the sequence of
letters is determined by something real,
then the meaning of those texts is very
different than we've been led to
believe.
For instance, I don't want to make a big
thing of it because I don't want to
insult anyone. Um, but the literal
translation of the text has to be
brought into question. It's not I'm not
saying it's wrong. I'm saying it's flat.
It's too thin. And then if you go from
there to creationism,
it's like you're saying that God spoke
to King James's translators in English
and that that's literally a mystical
experience.
I think it's much more plausible that
these texts are meaningful for what they
claim to be in their original and that
this simplistic
modern
view of religion has degraded its damned
faith by faint praise.
Does Jim and Tammy make Christianity
look attractive to you? Has anybody
converted to Judaism because of Meer
Kahani?
How many Islamic mystics has the
Ayatollah brought home?
That's not my sense of
what a person like Mymones, a great
physician, scholar, author, recognized
as a brilliant man in his age, would
have spent his life studying. We
wouldn't find that plausible today. An
intelligent person would look at it
over, say, "That looks good. This
doesn't look good. Wait a minute. That's
silly." And walk away. If we assume it's
all mythology,
well, then we're really insulting people
who have incredibly good track records
in other fields.
It can't be all mythology. Um, I haven't
seen the documents myself, but I've read
enough accounts in various other
people's reports. Now a few years back
Harvard finally published it's only 300
years late the remaining works of Isaac
Newton
in these alchemical works too
embarrassing to be published Newton
points out that he discovered the laws
of motion and gravitation from his study
of Egyptian metaphysics his word for
kabala the rabbis were allowed back into
England only 30 years before Newton did
this and Newton made his own personal
translation of the text of Genesis is
from the Hebrew himself and it got him
in so much trouble that he got he lost
his Lucasian seat at Trinity College
because of it because the Christians
couldn't accept what he found the simple
Christians. I'm not trying to demean
Christianity.
Um it may be
this is the apple that hit on the head.
Look,
let's make a pizza.
Okay, let's make a pizza. Got a lump of
dough. It's going to be a simple
mathematician's pizza. Okay, I got one
piece of pepperoni in it. No cheese.
It's kosher pizza. You can't have cheese
and eat at the same time. It's beef
pepperoni.
It's going to be pretty good. It's tofu
pepperoni. Let's be veggie. Okay. It's
pretty good. All right. We take this
little piece of pizza dough and we give
it a spin. Okay. Right guy spins it and
toss it in the air. Okay. This is
mathematicians pizza dough, so it's a
little more flexible than other dough.
We give it enough spin so that the time
it takes to go up and come down, it
turns exactly one and a half times.
Could arrange that. And in that same
time, this little blob spreads out into
a disc. It's called a pizza pot. And our
piece of pepperoni, which was in sort of
just in the middle with the dough,
because it's not perfectly centered, we
couldn't have thrown it exactly right,
is now way up on the rim of the pizza.
This
that's the path of this shape.
Throw it in the air. Goes up and comes
down by the inverse square law. It's
rotating one and a half times. See? One
and a half times.
the three turns down the core.
Okay, it's got constant angular
velocity. It's conserves angular
momentum. So, it has an accelerating
linear rate as it pulls out. And it's
got a square rate, square law rate as it
goes up and down.
Okay, three parametric equations at
three levels. Linear, constant, linear,
and square.
The constant and linear are the ordinary
laws of Newton, laws of inertia, and the
square laws of gravitation. It makes an
apple.
It hits you on the head mean head brain
from a tree. From a tree tree,
remember um I had correspondence with a
really fine fellow named Peter Dawkins,
I believe, who runs the Francis Bacon
Research Trust in Britain. Uh Peter
tells me that um Bacon attempted to
reconcile English with Hebrew to make it
a sacred language. It was the same time
as Newton basically very roughly.
So this was the kind of thing that was
going on there.
Did the ancients have sufficient
mathematical skills to do this sort of
thing? Well, Benoit Mandelro attributes
fractal mathematics to Archimedes.
Archimedes was alive the time the
Septuagent translation the first
translation of the Hebrew text into
Greek was made about 285 BCE.
So it comes together fits. It's
plausible.
Okay. Did I lose the question? Okay.
I went off a tangent here. Anybody else?
Yes. Just a quick question. What what uh
Hebrew translation would you recommend
getting high school? Art scroll Missouri
if you want the the text. And um also if
you want readability, get Kaplan with
the Hebrew, not without it. And if you
want very Jewish, get Hersh.
Um
but you know, I mean,
did you say that Harvard was translating
the alchemical works or publishing?
Harvard apparently did a few years ago.
I think so. That's I mean, I've been
reading references to it in other
people's works. I haven't seen it. You
can get it? I think so. I don't know. I
haven't tried. I'd sure like to see it
though if you get a copy. Definitely
like to see it because I bet there's a
lot else in there too. If you cut the
apple that way, you get a fivestar
pattern. Exactly. Yeah. Five star
pattern. Really? You think so? You get a
fivestar pattern. Isn't that amazing? A
onear pattern with five. Five. Five
points. Yeah. Right. Actually, it's five
against five.
Um Zohar says five against f five
against five. Five against five. Five
against five makes um 10.
That's also if you look down DNA, you'll
see that you see the 10 points.
That's why the tetrahelix that Fuller
makes really does make the DNA model.
Um I'm just trying to the connection
that you're saying is excuse me the
meditation that you're saying is it's a
um movement meditation on the
um tak is that yes and it would also I'm
only showing the hand motions they would
also be music and body motions and
perhaps a breathing at the same time.
Now um the only question that comes in
here is that um with a lot of the work
that you're doing here um in its way is
a certain amount of it is an
intellectualization of this process um
so I think that right
well the point if I can interrupt is
that if this model is valid it must be
equally light and vessel it must be
light emotion and vessel logic. So you
have to have both the personal feeling
and the thinking hmama and bina right
continue. Um so the the the but the only
way that you could actually prove it
would be by doing this meditation.
Ah well it depends what you want to
prove. If you want to prove that they
use this model you can do it perfectly
logically. And in fact, if we could
afford to do a computer simulation of
the path specified by the letters in the
Tanakh, which is the books of the Torah
and the writings,
then that could be demonstrated on the
computer to be a path. If we look at the
right direction, we see a meaningful
pattern. Not just a pattern, but a
meaningful pattern. Then we'd know there
was a pattern there. If you know how
many digits from pi you are, you can
identify the string as as pi.
But to prove the existence of God. No.
No. Not prove the existence of God, but
prove this as a as a part. Um, prove
that they did this. You can do it. Well,
that's not what I'm That's what I'm
questioning. I'm questioning that. Um,
you could do this analytically that in
order to um reproduce the path to the
mystical experience, if this is, as you
said, point of good, you would have to
um have to do it. You'd have to do it,
right? You could prove that there was
something there. You couldn't prove it
had an effect on you until you did it.
Let me throw something else on the table
because you brought up a thought to me.
This is very controversial issue. Um,
you've seen Dad Dell on television, the
the TV doctor. um talk about
circumcision and there's been a lot of
discussion about circumcision is
unnecessarily mutilation of a poor
newborn innocent child
um or it's defended because it's
religious thing or because it's good for
medical practice or sanit hygiene
whatever all kinds of discussion
everything but the actual issue
consider what we know from ambreactive
therapies these days when a person
relives their neonatal experiences
how primary they are to forming a
nucleating personality.
Consider that partic you've probably
familiar with Stannislav Grath who's got
his four kinds of of birthing situations
that lead to four personality types.
Four kinds of birth experiences where
you get caught in the canal or how much
trouble you get getting out. It leads to
personality types. Consider what would
happen if you took a whole population in
this case all the men and you performed
the same
trauma minor trauma but trauma at the
same time in life across the population.
When a child is first born
that's when the brain's neural
connections are both sprouting like
crazy and ablating if not stimulated.
It's been demonstrated. It's fairly
famous now. If you raise cats in a room
without vertical lines, they'll never
see vertical lines. That part of the
brain doesn't work.
So if you perform the same ritual
procedure
across a population, you could never
predict what would happen to an
individual, but on average, you would
predict a particular personality type.
You'd predict the particular brain
propensity. You'd stimulate certain
neurons and allow others to ablate.
What if circumcision performed as it's
supposed to be performed not arbitrarily
by a doctor at 2 days
but at a particular time particular time
when brain development produced a kind
of personality on average only on
average that would have a propensity to
be able to do these meditations
then that procedure would be a true
covenant because if the meditation is
the means of attaining the prophetic
experience the transcendental
experience. Anything you could do to
make it easier
would be a benefit to maintaining that
tradition.
The reason given by the way why women
aren't circumcises because women go
through the birthing experience which is
an ego death experience and don't need
that particular stimulation. Those
connections are there. I think it may
have to do with the shorter Y
chromosome.
I'm not sure. So you can see that even
something that seems barbaric and
arbitrary can be if it's done in a
barbaric and arbitrary way. But if you
understand its purpose and it's done for
that purpose, then it could be
functional and real and can be evaluated
on that basis. Don't circumcise a kid if
you're not going to teach him to
meditate.
If you are, maybe you should. I'm not
saying you should on my word, but I'm
saying you should consider this idea.
I'm getting the windup signal. How much
time do we have? Two minutes. Right.
Well, nobody jumped. One, I want to
thank you all for coming. I want to
especially thank Arthur and Ruth Young
and the other people who've made this
possible. I definitely want to thank my
wife Cynthia who handc colored all these
drawings for you. We can't afford color
Xerox.
[Applause]
And um I want to encourage anyone with
questions or comments or wanting to
learn more to please get in touch with
us. Merryill Foundation, as I said, is a
nonprofit educational foundation. We
think, to answer your question, if these
ideas come out, they are going to be
healing if it's done responsibly and
respectfully. If I can put this on a
hilltop in Jerusalem and show Arab kids
and Jewish kids that their alphabets
come from the same hand, then they might
get the idea.
Um we didn't have time to talk at all
but you have heard um let me let me
defer to the quotation on um the little
booklets we give out from Nick Herbert.
He says one of the greatest scientific
achievements imaginable would be the
discovery of an explicit relationship
between the waveform alphabets of
quantum theory in certain human states
of consciousness.
General projector principle from
consciousness to physics the human hand.
I promised to go through the meditation
and play the music. So if everyone will
give us another second or two, we will
do it.
[Music]
[Applause]
Sorry
that righteous one.
[Applause]
[Music]
Heat. Heat.